In the big data world, we often hear the
term structured data, that is, data having
a structure which is quite different
from the so-called unstructured data.
But what is a structure?
Let's consider file 1.
It's a typical CSV file that has
three lines with different content.
But the file content is uniform
in the sense that each line,
call it a record,
has exactly three fields,
which we sometimes call data properties or
attributes.
Further, the first two of these fields
are strings and the third one is a date.
We can add more records, that's
lines with the same pattern of data,
to the file in the same fashion.
The content will grow, but the pattern of
data organization will remain identical.
This repeatable pattern of data
organization makes the file structured.
Now let's look at file 2,
which is four records of five fields each,
except that the third record seems
to be missing the last entry.
Is this file structured?
We argue that it is, because the missing
value makes the third record incomplete,
but it does not break the structure or
the pattern of the data organization.
Let's looks at these
two files side by side.
Clearly file 2 has more fields, and hence
is sort of wider than the first file.
Would you say that they
have the same structure?
Well, on the face of it they don't.
But if you think more broadly,
you would notice that they
are both collection of k fields.
The size of the collection,
respectively three and four, differs.
And k is 3 in the first case and
5 in the second.
But we can think of 3 and 5 as parameters.
In that case, we will say that these
files have been generated by a similar
organizational structure, and
hence they have the same data model.
Now in contrast, consider this file.
Just looking at it, it's impossible to
figure out how the data is organized and
how to identify subparts of the data.
We would call this data unstructured.
Often, compressed data like JPEG images,
MP3 audio files,
MPEG3 video files, encrypted data,
are usually unstructured.
In module two, we'll elaborate on data
models that are not fully structured or
are structured differently.